		   NJWIN Multilingual Support System
			     Version 1.0

	 Copyright (c) Hongbo Data Systems 1995 All Rights Reserved.


Introductions
=============

NJWIN v1.0 is designed to support any windows program to display Chinese,
Japanese and Korean characters under the standard Windows 95 environment.
All Chinese / Japanese / Korean (CJK) coding standards are supported in NJWIN,
and coding can be switched on the fly from one coding to another depending on
the document being viewed.

Installation
============

1). Shareware Version

You will normally receive the shareware version in a ZIP file, say
NJWIN10.ZIP. First unzip it to a temporary directory, then type SETUP. The
setup program will guide you through the installation process.

2). Registered Version

Registered users will receive their copy of the latest version on disk(s).  To
install, simply insert the first disk in drive A: or B:, then type SETUP. The
setup program will guide you through the installation process.

Running NJWIN
=============

By clicking mouse left button on the NJWIN Icon or start NJWIN from windows
95's START menu. The following NJWIN control center will be displayed on top
right of the screen (default).


1). NJWIN System button: Pressing the button will display a popup menu with
    selection of 'About NJWIN' and 'Exit NJWIN'

2). NJWIN Options button: Pressing the button will displays a dialog box of
    all options available for selection.

3). Current Coding button: Displays current Coding in Use, pressing the button
    will get a popup menu with following coding selections:

    Chinese GB JianTi	    View Chinese GB file  using simplified characters
    Chinese GB FanTi	    View Chinese GB file using traditional characters
    Chinese Big5 JianTi     View Chinese Big5 file using simplified characters
    Chinese Big5 FanTi	    View Chinese Big5 file using traditional characters
    Japanese EUC-JIS	    View Japanese file in EUC JIS coding
    Japanese Shift-JIS	    View Japanese file in Shift-JIS coding
    Korean KS C 5601	    View Korean file in KS C 5601 coding
    ANSI / No CJK Support   View the document without CJK support

4). Help button: Displays this help file.

5). Move button: click and hold left mouse button on this button will let you
    move NJWIN control center to other places, and NJWIN will remember the
    position when started next time.


Frequently Asked Questions about NJWIN
======================================

Q1: How to Use NJWIN to Read Chinese on Internet ?
--------------------------------------------------
A1: You should set NJWIN to Chinese Big5 or GB mode depending on the source.
For Internet Chinese newsgroup alt.chinese.text, you can view in either GB or
Big5 mode as long as HZ option is checked in the NJWIN Option dialog box.  For
alt.chinese.text.big5, you should set NJWIN to Big5 simplified or traditional.
To access those two newsgroups, its recommended to use Windows 95's
HyperTerminal. When viewing Chinese HTML home pages, it normally allows you to
select GB or Big5 code, so you should set NJWIN to the same code, either in
simplified or traditional characters.

Due to the conflict between 7 bit HZ encoding and HTML language syntax, a 7
bit HZ home page can not be viewed correctly under any WWW viewer. So never
create a home page in 7 bit HZ coding. Use 8 bit HZ (eg. the HZ8) instead, or
better just use plain GB or Big5. As all WWW viewers can not wrap long Chinese
line correctly,  Chinese home pages should be pre-wrapped, and placed between
the <PRE>  and </PRE> statement. See CND-CM Chinese magazine for an example.


Q2: How to Use NJWIN to Read Japanese on Internet?
---------------------------------------------------
A2: You should normally set to Shift-JIS mode because Shift-JIS is commonly
used in Home pages, If you know a home page in EUC coding, then set NJWIN to
EUC mode.  Under Shift-JIS or EUC mode,  all 7 bit JIS (New-JIS, Old-JIS and
NEC-JIS) are recognized automatically. This recognition can be turn off
through the NJWIN Option dialog box if desired.

If the Japanese home pages are not pre-wrapped or in 7 bit JIS coding, It
can't be viewed correctly under normal viewer, except using NETSCAPE. Under
Netscape browser, you can set the  netscape font encoding to Japanese JIS, EUC
or Shift-JIS depending on the source (go to Options - Preferences - Fonts,
change 'The Default Encoding is' to Japanese JIS/EUC/SJIS). If you set
Netscape to any of the Japanese Encoding, you must set NJWIN to Shift-JIS in
order to view it correctly.


Q3: How to Display CJK Text Perfectly on the Screen?
-----------------------------------------------------
A3: Since NJWIN uses 16x16 font for screen display, and Windows scale it to
any size that specified by the displaying program. To get perfect screen
display (ie. in 16x16 bitmap), you should set the concerned program to use 11
or 12 point font for display. To get perfect display in menu or dialog box,
set the font to 'System Font'. (from Windows 95's START - Settings - Control
Panel - Screen - Appearance ).


Q4: Does NJWIN work in Windows NT?
----------------------------------
A4: NJWIN only supports 16 bit applications under Windows NT. That means you
can use 16 bit programs, like Netscape 16 bit, etc., to handle CJK. Because
system controls (Button, ListBox, Edit, etc.) are 32 bits, so you could not
see any Chinese display. If you are developing 32 bit DBCS application and
want it to run it under Windows 95 and NT without any DBCS system support,
please contact us for information on our royalty free NJSDK 32-bit DLL for
linking to your application.


Q5: Does NJWIN work in Windows 3.1x?
------------------------------------
A5: Not work in currently version, hopefully it will in next release.


Q6: How to make NJWIN work for MS-Word 6.0 or later version?
------------------------------------------------------------
A6: You should disable MS-Word's AutoCorrect function and not allow the
non-printing characters to be shown. Go to Word's Tool menu - AutoCorrect,
uncheck all selections. Go to Tool - Options..., uncheck all non-printing
characters..


===========================================================================
  Hongbo Data Systems Inc.   Tel:+61-2-869-0821   Fax:+61-2-869-0823
  P. O. Box 40		     CompuServe:  100032,2724
  Epping NSW 2121	     InterNet:	  Hongbo@njstar.com.au
  Australia		     WWW:	  http://www.njstar.com.au/njstar/
===========================================================================
