Version 03/29/2001

The files in this directory relate to Adobe CJK character collections
for CID-keyed fonts, and also provide *real* CIDFonts for testing
purposes.

Documentation that further describes CID-keyed Font Technology can be
found at the following URL:

  http://partners.adobe.com/asn/developer/technotes.html

Specifically, Tech Notes #5014 and #5092 are available at the above
URL. The former is the full engineering specification, and the latter
is a gentle overview. Other CID-related Tech Notes are also available:

  5004.AFM_Spec.pdf       (AFM specification -- includes CID-keyed AFM format)
  5078.Adobe-Japan1-4.pdf (Adobe-Japan1-4 Character Collection)
  5079.Adobe-GB1-4.pdf    (Adobe-GB1-4 Character Collection)
  5080.Adobe-CNS1-3.pdf   (Adobe-CNS1-3 Character Collection)
  5093.Adobe-Korea1-0.pdf (Adobe-Korea1-0 Character Collection)
  5094.CJK_CID.pdf        (Adobe CJKV Character Collections and CMaps Overview)
  5097.Adobe-Japan2-0.pdf (Adobe-Japan2-0 Character Collection)
  5099.CMapFiles.pdf      (Building CMap Files for CID-Keyed Fonts)
  5174.CID_PS.pdf         (CID-keyed Font Installation for PostScript Devices)
  5175.CID_ATM.pdf        (CID-keyed Font Compatibility With ATM Software)
  5176.CFF.pdf            (The Compact Font Format Specification)
  5177.Type2.pdf          (The Type 2 Charstring Format)
  5178.PFM.pdf            (Building PFM files for PostScript CJK fonts)
  5180.sfnt.pdf           (CID-Keyed sfnt Font File Format for the Macintosh,
                           version 2.0) 
  5213.CID.pdf            (PostScript-language extensions for CID-keyed fonts)
  5640.CJK_Fonts.pdf      (Application Support for PostScript CJK Fonts)
  5641.CID_Embed.pdf      (Enabling PDF Font Embedding for CID-Keyed Fonts)

Most of these are the illustrated CID tables that indicate the glyphs
for each CID -- they use embedded 150-dpi bitmaps or embedded
CIDFonts. Tech Note #5094 provides a detailed summary of what each
character collection supports in terms of character sets and
encodings, and Tech Note #5004 includes a description of CID-keyed AFM
files (the AFM file that corresponds to a CIDFont).

If you are interested in CID-keyed font technology or wish to develop
products based on CID-keyed font technology, I *strongly* suggest that
you request a copy of the CID SDK (CID Software Developers Kit) from
Adobe Developer Support:

  Adobe Developers Association
  Adobe Systems Incorporated
  345 Park Avenue
  San Jose, CA 95110-2704
  USA
  +1-408-536-9000 (phone)
  +1-206-628-5737 (facsimile)
  devsupp-person@adobe.com
  http://partners.adobe.com/asn/developer/

The following describes the contents of this directory (those for
specific character collections contain the complete set of *standard*
CMap files plus the cid-to-character-code correspondence table):

  00README                    This file
  ac13.tar.Z                  Adobe-CNS1-3 materials
  ag14.tar.Z                  Adobe-GB1-4 materials
  ai0.tar.Z                   Adobe-Identity-0 materials
  aj14.tar.Z                  Adobe-Japan1-4 materials
  aj20.tar.Z                  Adobe-Japan2-0 materials
  ak12.tar.Z                  Adobe-Korea1-2 materials
  samples/                    Sample CIDFont and CID-keyed AFM files

(Note that the Unicode, UCS-2 and UTF-8, CMap files are now integrated
into the appropriate character collections.)

The currently-available sample CIDFonts, in the "samples"
subdirectory, are as follows:

  Munhwa-Regular            (Adobe-Korea1-0 subset: 8193 CIDs)
  Munhwa-Bold               (Adobe-Korea1-0 subset: 2549 CIDs)
  MunhwaGothic-Regular      (Adobe-Korea1-0 subset: 8193 CIDs)
  MunhwaGothic-Bold         (Adobe-Korea1-0 subset: 2549 CIDs)
  MunhwaGungSeo-Bold        (Adobe-Korea1-0 subset: 2549 CIDs)
  MunhwaGungSeo-Light       (Adobe-Korea1-0 subset: 2549 CIDs)
  MunhwaGungSeoHeulim-Bold  (Adobe-Korea1-0 subset: 2549 CIDs)
  MunhwaGungSeoHeulim-Light (Adobe-Korea1-0 subset: 2549 CIDs)
  MunhwaHoonMin-Regular     (Adobe-Korea1-0 subset: 2549 CIDs)
  WadaMin-Regular           (Adobe-Japan1-1 subset: 6998 CIDs
  WadaMin-Bold              (Adobe-Japan1-1 subset: 6996 CIDs)
  WadaGo-Bold               (Adobe-Japan1-1 subset: 6998 CIDs)
  WadaMaruGo-Regular        (Adobe-Japan1-1 subset: 6998 CIDs)
  WadaMin-RegularH          (Adobe-Japan2-0 complete: 6068 CIDs)
  WadaMaruGo-RegularH       (Adobe-Japan2-0 complete: 6068 CIDs)
  MOESung-Regular           (Adobe-CNS1-0 subset: 13699 CIDs)
  MOEKai-Regular            (Adobe-CNS1-0 subset: 13699 CIDs)

All of the "Munhwa" CIDFonts, except for Munhwa-Regular and
MunhwaGothic-Regular, include CIDs 0-101 (.notdef, proportional Latin,
and full-width space), 1086-3435 (2,350 KS X 1001:1992 hangul), and
8094-8190 (half-width Latin). Munhwa-Regular and MunhwaGothic-Regular
also include CIDs 102-1085 (KS X 1001:1992 symbols), and 3436-8093 (KS
X 1001:1992 hanja), and 8283-8284 (additional punctuation). All of
these fonts have /FSType set to 4 to enable PDF embedding.

Note that two of the Korean "Munhwa" fonts are also available here in
the "samples" subdirectory as sfnt-wrapped CIDFonts for use on MacOS
(but with only 2,549 CIDs). The following are the relevant files:

  Munhwa-Regular.hqx
  MunhwaGothic-Regular.hqx

Each archive contains instructions for installation and use. Korean
font developers may also find these to be excellent examples.

WadaMin-Bold, WadaGo-Bold, and WadaMaruGo-Regular include CIDs 0
(.notdef), 422, 425-500, 629, 633- 740, 780-7477, 7479-7554,
8229-8263, and 8284-8285. WadaMin-Regular includes the same CIDs as
the previous three CIDFonts, except for 8284-8285. All of these fonts
have /FSType  set to 4 to enable PDF embedding.

MOESung-Regular and MOEKai-Regular include CIDs 0-505, 595-13746, and
14056-14096. This subset definition provides full coverage of Big Five
and CNS 11643-1992 Planes 1 and 2. Both of these fonts have /FSType
set to 4 to enable PDF embedding.

Because CMap and CIDFont files are considered binary data (a CMap file
is just newline-terminated text, but a CIDFont is composed of newline
terminated header material plus *real* binary data), be sure transfer
all files in binary mode.  Cheers!

-- Dr. Ken Lunde
   Manager, CJKV Type Development
   Adobe Systems Incorporated
   lunde@adobe.com
   http://www.oreilly.com/~lunde/ (WWW Home Page)
